Add KARSHAKH743VTOL board (#33479)
ArduPilot/ardupilot: libraries/AP_HAL_ChibiOS/hwdef/KARSHAKH743VTOL/README.md

# KARSHAKH743VTOL Flight Controller

> The KARSHAKH743VTOL is a hardware product produced by [Karshak Drones Pvt. Ltd.](https://www.karshakdrones.com/) and will be sold soon enough.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The KARSHAKH743VTOL is a hardware product produced by [Karshak Drones Pvt. Ltd.](https://www.karshakdrones.com/) 
```

## Features

- Processor
  - STM32H743 microcontroller
- Sensors
  - Single BMI088 IMU (+1 External IMU; Optional Addon)
  - SPL06 barometer
- Power
  - 12V 2.5A BEC; 5V 2.5A BEC
- Interfaces
  - 10x PWM outputs DShot capable (direct use)
  - 1x RC input
  - 7x UARTs/Serial for GPS and other peripherals plus USB
  - microSD card slot for logging, etc.
  - USB-TypeC port
  - Built-in RGB LED

>   - External/built-in Buzzer

Reviewer: do you really have a built-in buzzer? if so, this can interfere in flight with the IMU!

Author: @Hwurzburg - Sadly, yes, for the one we tested our firmware on. Although the buzzer and IMU are positioned quite far apart, we intend to move the USB and buzzer onto a separate extension board, following the approach currently adopted by other COTS flight controllers. This is why we chose not to update the picture for the docs right now. Along with some minor changes in the logo update and silkscreen naming.

  - Voltage and Current monitoring for VCC.

## UART Mapping

- SERIAL0 -> USB
- SERIAL1 -> UART1 (GPS, DMA-enabled)
- SERIAL2 -> UART2 (MAVLink2, DMA-enabled)
- SERIAL3 -> UART3 (VTX-HD, DMA-enabled)
- SERIAL4 -> UART4 (RX tied to inverted SBUS RC input, but can be used as normal UART if `BRD_ALT_CONFIG =1`, Shared port)
- SERIAL5 -> UART5 (MAVLink2, DMA-enabled)
- SERIAL6 -> UART7 (ESC Telemetry, DMA-enabled)
- SERIAL7 -> UART8 (Serial RC Input, DMA-enabled)

## RC Input

> RC input is configured on the RCIN pin at one end of the servo rail. All ArduPilot-supported unidirectional RC protocols can be an input here, including PPM. For bi-directional or half-duplex protocols, such as CRSF/ELRS/SBUS, a full UART change the parameter `BRD_ALT_CONFIG =1`. Set the protocol to receive RC data: `SERIALn_PROTOCOL=23` and change SERIAL2 _Protocol to '23'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RC input is configured on the RC pin at one end of the servo rail. All ArduPilot-supported unidirectional RC protocols can be an input here, including PPM. For bi-directional or half-duplex protocols, such as CRSF/ELRS, a full UART is required`. Set its protocol to receive RC data: `SERIALn_PROTOCOL=23`
```

what is the "SB" pin in the image??

Author: SB is the SBUS.

Reviewer: you did not implement the suggested change...also you need to explain that the SBUS pin is connected to UART4 RX....dont know why you did this...SBUS works fine on the RC pin...and using the alt config is not good for bi-dir protocols since RX DMA is not available in alt configs....

Author: Are you saying the bi-directional protocols(_ELRS, mLRS_) should be isolated rather than integrated with RC-in(_PPM_)?

Reviewer: they wont work on RC pin (its a timer interrupt) only unidirectional ones will work...and CRSF needs DMA on a full UART....you wont get it on an alternate config of a UART that normally is used for RCINT

Author: Would it be fine if I switch the DMA channels to a different UART port instead of using RCIN?
Something like 
"PB9 UART4_TX UART4
PB8 UART4_RX UART4 ALT(1)"
and pass on to say the GPS or Telemetry / DJI port?

Note: We have tried SBUS, mLRS and PPM on the hardware.

Reviewer: I would just set UART8 default protocol as RCin and remove it from UART 4...you can state that UART 4 RX is not available unless the alt config is evoked....I dont quite understand how SBUS in ,RC, and the inverter is setup....but since RC works on RC input pin, I assume the inverter from the SBUS pin is not active and interfering

## VTX Support

> The generic 2.54mm pinHeader connector, situated at the top-right corner, supports a DJI Air Unit / HD VTX connection. Protocol defaults to DisplayPort. Pin 1 of the connector is 9V, so be careful not to connect this to a peripheral requiring 5V/3.3V.

Reviewer: is this marked EXT on the image? if so, it needs a pin list shown....and where does its sbus connection go to on the autopilot??

Author: It's in the top right corner of the [TOP] image shared with you.
Note: Near the SBUS and RCIN pin.

Author: EXT was meant for an external IMU configuration.

Reviewer: still dont see a connector....reword to use "pads" instead of "connector", there is no connector

Author: "connector" updated to "through hole pads".

## PWM Output

The KARSHAKH743VTOL supports up to 10 PWM outputs. All channels support bi-directional DShot.

10 PWM outputs are grouped into 3 groups:

- PWM 1, 2, 3, 4 are in Group1 (TIM1);
- PWM 5 and 6 are in Group2 (TIM2);
- PWM 7, 8, 9, 10 are in Group3 (TIM3);

Channels in the same group must use the same output protocol and/or output rate. If any channel in a group uses DShot, all channels in the group need to use DShot.

## Battery Monitoring

> The board has an internal voltage sensor and connections on the ESC connector for an external current sensor input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The board has an internal voltage sensor (VBAT pin) and connections (CURR pin) for an external current sensor input.
```

The voltage sensor can handle up to 6S LiPo batteries.

The default battery parameters are:

- BATT_MONITOR 4
- BATT_VOLT_PIN 4
- BATT_CURR_PIN 8
- BATT_VOLT_MULT 10.2
- BATT_AMP_PERVLT 20.4

## Compass

The KARSHAKH743VTOL does not have a built-in compass, but you can attach an external compass via the I2C connector using the SDA and SCL pins.

> ## Analog Inputs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## RSSI
```

> The KARSHAKH743VTOL has 2(+1) analog inputs.

Reviewer: Remove all these lines and add:

Analog RSSI can be input on the RSSI pin. Set RSSI_TYPE = 1, RSSI_ANA_PIN = 11.

- ADC1 -> Battery Voltage (internal sensor)
- ADC1 -> Battery Current Sensor (external sensor)
- ADC1 -> RSSI voltage monitoring /AUXGPIO (disabled)

> ## GPIOs

Reviewer: you should really have a table with the PWM output GPIO numbers here and include the AX1 and AX3 pins

> The 3 outputs labelled AUX1, AUX2 and AUX3 are the "auxiliary" outputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The 3 pins labelled AX1 and AX3 are GPIO outputs.
```

and make sure the pinout image labels matches these designations (I would change your silscreen also since AX2 is really RSSI)...you have cpu pin names currently which only confuses users

The numbering of the GPIOs for PIN variables in ArduPilot is:

> - AUX1 - PA4 - 81

Reviewer: Just give the PIN, not the CPU name...that has no value to a user

> - AUX2 - PC1 - 82

Reviewer: remove...its not a GPIO its RSSI

- AUX3 - PC0 - 83

## Physical

- Mounting: 30.5 x 30.5mm, Φ2mm
- Dimensions: 60 x 37mm
- Weight: 16.5g (with onboard buzzer, external IMU connector and USB Type-C port)

## Loading Firmware

Firmware for these boards can be found at the [ArduPilot firmware server](https://firmware.ardupilot.org) in sub-folders labelled "KARSHAKH743VTOL".

The board comes pre-installed with an ArduPilot-compatible bootloader, enabling the loading of `*.apj` firmware files through any ArduPilot-compatible ground station.

> However, if the board does not include the ArduPilot bootloader by default, you can perform the initial firmware installation by entering the DFU mode—connect the USB cable while holding the bootloader button. Then flash the `****_bl.hex` file using any DFU programming utility.

Reviewer: Either it does or does not come with an AP bootloader...which is it?

Author: We intend to provide the FC with a pre-installed AP bootloader.

Reviewer: then remove the paragraph or reword to be for users wishing to run firmware other than ArduPilot

Author: Paragraph removed.

## Features

- Processor
  - STM32H743 microcontroller, 480MHz, 2MB Flash
- Sensors
  - Single BMI088 IMU (+1 External IMU; Optional Addon)(SPI1 & SPI4)
  - SPL06 barometer (I2C1)
- Power
  - 5V 5A BEC; 9V, 12V(selectable) 5A cont. BEC; 5V, 6.3V, 7V(selectable) 5A BEC delivered through PDB
  - FC BEC 5V 5A cont.(for FC and peripherals), BEC 3.3V 1A(for FC)
- Interfaces
  - 10x PWM outputs DShot capable (direct use)
  - 1x RC input
  - 7x UARTs/Serial for GPS and other peripherals plus USB
  - 1x CAN
  - 2x I2C
  - 3x SPI (SPI3 on pin headers, SPI4 on EXT. IMU connector)
  - 3x ADC(Vbat, Current and RSSI)
  - microSD card slot for logging, etc.
  - USB-TypeC port
  - "DJI"-pin header with SBUS
  - Built-in RGB LED
  - External/built-in Buzzer.
- Dimensions
  - 60 x 37mm

## Pinout

![KARSHAKH743VTOL Board Top](Top_KARSHAKH743VTOL.png "KARSHAKH743VTOL Top")
![KARSHAKH743VTOL Board Bot](Bot_KARSHAKH743VTOL.png "KARSHAKH743VTOL Bot")

## UART Mapping

- SERIAL0 -> USB (MAVLink2)
- SERIAL1 -> UART1 (GPS, DMA-enabled)
- SERIAL2 -> UART2 (MAVLink2, DMA-enabled)
- SERIAL3 -> UART3 (DisplayPort, DMA-enabled)

> - SERIAL4 -> UART4 (MAVLink2, DMA-enabled)

Reviewer: UART4 protocol is NONE

Author: Changed to MAVLink2.

- SERIAL5 -> UART5 (RC Input, DMA-enabled)
- SERIAL7 -> UART7 (ESC Telemetry, DMA-enabled)

> - SERIAL8 -> UART8 (MAVLink2, DMA-enabled)

Reviewer: protocol is NONE

Author: Serial4 and Serial8 protocols are changed to MAVLink2.

> ## RC Input

Reviewer: the info on the SBUS pin should be here instead of in the VTX section, and warn that no signal should be applied to that pin if normal RCIN operation is used

Author: Done and mentioned that Rx5 is hardware inverted.
